1 Contributor2020’S BEST METAL ALBUMS (SO FAR) LyricsIt's a brand new decade and 2020, aside from current events, has thoroughly killed it as far as new metal albums go. Never before has metal been so complete, spanning 50 years of artistry while newer acts look toward the future, which seems to be headed down a path devoid of genre barriers as evidenced by our list of 2020's Best Metal Albums (So Far).

Ozzy Osbourne represents the eldest side of metal's history as one of the longest-enduring artists of all time. But even the Prince of Darkness isn't just reveling in the past as he linked up with Post Malone producer Andrew Watt for his Ordinary Man album. It has touchstones of his storied past, but largely feels very in the moment and cognizant of current trends. If that's not a resounding endorsement of modern affairs, we give up.

On the theme of tearing down the genre walls that divided music fans of all sorts for far too long are records from Poppy, Code Orange and Igorrr in particular, who embrace ideas far outside of metal's traditional scope. It's a continued exercise in experimentation as, over half a century later, there's still more to learn about metal's malleable state.

Of course, there's still artists playing to their usual strengths with exciting releases from Testament, Body Count, My Dying Bride and plenty of others.

We'll keep updating this list as the year rolls on, so take a look below and see the 2020's Best Metal Albums (So Far).


The Amity Affliction, 'Everyone Loves You... Once You Leave Them'
Coming out swinging after the pop-heavy experimentalism of previous album Misery, the Amity Affliction have brought the goods with Everyone Loves You… Once You Leave Them . Metalcore epics such as “All My Friends Are Dead” and “Soak Me In Bleach” recall career highlights like “Pittsburgh” that saw the band gain legions of followers, but this album’s finest moment actually comes in the form of what is essentially a pure pop song. “Aloneliness,” a track that is characterized by some typically bleak lyricism from vocalist Joel Birch, is one of the most moving songs released so far this year, and the best thing the Amity Affliction have written in years. —Jake Richardson

August Burns Red, 'Guardians'
Can this band do any wrong? Metalcore mainstays August Burns Red are continuous innovators and, on Guardians, the band leans heavily on distorted, murky atmospheric textures to drive their chuggernaut (ya like that one?) riffing frenzy. This genre has always employed a deft balance of melody and brutality and, with highly contagious sing-song guitar melodies, August Burns Red strike a refreshing balance. —Joe DiVita

Beneath the Massacre, 'Fearmonger'
Beneath the Massacre have always served their brand of technical death metal with a heaping pile of dystopian themes, and Fearmonger entirely delivers on the back of that context. Beneath the Massacre’s compositional prowess throughout this album is ridiculous, and the band remains tighter than ever in this soundtrack to self destruction. — Graham Hartmann

The Black Dahlia Murder, 'Verminous'
Regardless of which direction they lean in, The Black Dahlia Murder's core sound has never been threatened by any new advances. Such is the case for Verminous, another career high for 21st century death metal. It's the second album for guitarist Brandon Ellis, who makes his adoration of ripping classic rock and '80s neoclassical shred very apparent on this uber slick record loaded with some of Black Dahlia's most memorable songs ever. —JD

Body Count, 'Carnivore'
Ice-T scoffs at the concepts of toxic masculinity and political correctness, taking both topics to task while embodying ultra-violence throughout Carnivore. The third album of Body Count’s comeback keeps its messages direct and its production punchy while featuring stellar guitar work from Ernie C. and brilliant cameos from Power Trip’s Riley Gale, Hatebreed’s Jamey Jasta and Evanescence’s Amy Lee. You can’t stop Body Count. —GH
Bütcher, '666 Goats Carry My Chariot'
Belgium’s underground hellions Bütcher are completely off the rails with a white-knuckled cocktail of, ready for this… Raven, Venom, Manowar, Bathory (old and Viking eras), Mercyful Fate, Judas Priest and Ozzy. Sure, some riffs are lifted from classic metal songs and the titles make their intent to worship the olde guards even more egregious, but 666 Goats Carry My Chariot is still purely original. This is a ride like if Satan just built the world’s biggest roller coaster. —JD

Code Orange, 'Underneath'
Code Orange took a huge risk with Underneath, evolving their sound rather than remaining comfortable as one of heavy music’s most buzzworthy bands. Expanding on the industrial and post-metal elements of Forever, Code Orange crafted a futuristic piece of horror surrealism that feels almost inter-dimensional, jumping between realities to build distress within the listener. Forever may have been Code Orange’s coming out party, but Underneath could prove to be their magnum opus. —GH

Demons and Wizards, 'III'
Awakening from a 15-year slumber, the Demons & Wizards duo of Hansi Kursch (Blind Guardian) and Jon Schaffer (Iced Earth) returned with a triumph of hard-boiled heavy metal. Such a long gap makes releases like this a doom-or-boon situation, but these two didn’t simply come back just to phone it in. The effectively and simply titled III is a career-defining work for two widely celebrated pillars of power metal. —JD

Haunt, 'Mind Freeze'
In three years, Haunt have cut two EPs, a couple splits and three full length albums, the latest being their crowning achievement, Mind Freeze. There’s an otherworldly, enchanting power to the band, who lean heavily on classic metal values both in musicianship and production. Leader Trevor William Church’s heat-seeking hooks have just the right hair flair (really, just some slick Dokken-isms) to give it a pop-sensibility to this certifiably metal platter. —JD

Igorrr, 'Spirituality and Distortion'
Thank you, Igorrr, for making 2020 an ideal time for weird-ass music. There’s no describing Spirituality and Distortion, because right when you think you’ve got a grasp on the album, it morphs into an entirely different monster. If you love a never-ending banquet of genre swapping and drug-infused psychosomatic nightmare fuel, pick up this album and let it roam free in your grey matter. — GH

Intronaut, 'Fluid Existential Inversions'
Fluid Existential Inversions is one of those albums you can listen to 100 times and still peel back new layers. Bands who contemplate hanging it up tend to bounce back with newfound vigor and Intronaut, ending a five-year studio drought, did just that. Discharging no less than exactly a million riffs, Intronaut have hopefully initiated a fruitful second phase of their ever-evolving career. —JD

Katatonia, 'City Burials'
A hiatus can do a band plenty of good, as evidenced by Katatonia's City Burials, a remarkably refreshing and invigorating return. This band never been afraid to drift far from their metallic foundation and it's when they pull so many atypical sounds into their melancholic nook that Katatonia are at their best. —JD

Kvelertak, 'Splid'
Think the party is canceled just because Kvelertak lost their singer and drummer? Splid just sent you an invitation. As well as they ever have, Kvelertak mix brutality with fun on Splid, and the album shot to No. 1 on the Norwegian charts. The hour-long romp is filled with bangers including “Bratebrann” and “Crack of Doom,” crafted to destroy any living room if too many metalheads congregate in a closed space. —GH

Loathe, 'I Let It in and It Took Everything'
Loathe’s brand of hardcore is exclusively for barbarians and knuckle-walkers. If that’s not you, bugger off. I Let It In and It Took Everything is a jaw-smacking awakening to the new breed of hardcore that gyrates with elastic, djenty grooves and trace of industrial-like propulsion. With their nothing-to-lose fits of rage, Loathe are primed for a breakout on their second record. —JD
Mick Gordon / id, DOOM Eternal' Soundtrack
Though the official DOOM Eternal soundtrack wasn’t finished in time to release alongside the game, Mick Gordon’s soundscape for the most brutal franchise in video game history is vicious from front to back. The late release turned out to be a blessing in disguise, because each version of the punchy, industrial / djent feast has been shared online, giving fans hours of immersive and heavy music to inspire their virtual genocide of Hellspawn. —GH

Midnight, 'Rebirth By Blasphemy'
This one’s for the rotten, the damned... this one’s for the old school! Midnight have been playing black-hearted rot ‘n’ roll for over 15 years and instead of dripping pure slime and evil, Rebirth by Blasphemy is rooted in cheekier rock aesthetics than past offerings. It may sound treacherous of songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Athenar, but this is not your band and you don’t get to dictate the direction, you scum. If Rebirth by Blasphemy doesn’t make you want to kick down a door, you can just leave the Hall. —JD

My Dying Bride, 'The Ghost of Orion'
For 30 years, My Dying Bride have been a vessel for pain. Never has that pain cut as deep as the events that inspired the British doom institution’s 13th album, The Ghost of Orion. Singer Aaron Stainthorpe’s 5-year-old daughter was diagnosed with cancer in late 2017 and he nearly abstained from participating in the album. From this emotional gouging came melancholic beauty as this record is a testament to the endurance of the human spirit and an indomitable will. —JD

Naglfar, 'Cerecloth'
Has it really been eight years since Naglfar put out an album? As long these Swedes can churn out masterful slabs of sinister, nightmarish melodic black metal heard on Cerecloth, they can take another eight years before issuing their next record. This may be Naglfar's best since 2003's Sheol. —JD

Ozzy Osbourne, 'Ordinary Man'
Well, this was unexpected. Ozzy’s career has taken him to many strange places, Ordinary Man notwithstanding. Born from a collaborative song with Post Malone, Ozzy teamed up with Posty’s producer, Andrew Watt, who in turn inherited the coveted guitar spot in Ozzy’s lineup, albeit just for the recording. With Duff McKagan on bass and Chad Smith on drums, anything seemed possible. While some may still be pining for a return to his classic metal form, Ozzy dished out something with broad appeal and tons of variety that has him sounding refreshed and energetic in his 70s and ready to stay in the ring a bit longer. —JD

Polaris, 'The Death of Me'
Nope, it’s not the band on the front lawn from The Adventures of Pete and Pete. It’s the Australian metalcore band that is making waves in 2020 with their sophomore album, The Death of Me. The record is simply a solid modern metalcore offering and the proof is in the songs. Once again, you don’t need to reinvent the wheel when you can make a more perfect circle. —GH

Poppy, 'I Disagree'
With the new decade comes the new queen of experimental genre-mashing. Poppy took an unlikely path to metal stardom, beginning as a living meme on YouTube and translating that success into pop star success. However, she stole the hearts of metalheads with I Disagree thanks to ridiculous and infectious songs such as “Concrete” and “Anything Like Me.” With her third album, Poppy transcended her past and became the first to legitimately challenge Babymetal for the pop-metal crown. —GH

Sepultura, 'Quadra'
Fans can argue about the “real” Sepultura till they’re blue in the face, but Quadra is easily Sepultura’s finest offering since Roots. The Brazilian veterans combine epicness with relentless thrash and flawless production at the level of Testament’s The Gathering. Songs such as “Isolation” and “Last Time” are instant thrash classics, and with Quadra, Eloy Casagrande undoubtedly joins the ranks of metal’s all-time greatest drummers. —GH

Sons of Apollo, 'MMXX'
This is the kind of porn that’s actually safe for work. Sons of Apollo, so super a supergroup that all that’s missing is a cape from Rick Wakeman’s wardrobe for each member, are back with their second album, MMXX, another masterstroke of prog. Self-indulgent at exactly the right times and never overbearing, it’s refreshing to hear a group of virtuosos play to each other’s strengths rather than venture off in their own technical fantasies. —JD
Spectral Lore / Mare Cognitum, 'Astrology of the Nine'
Hang on for a second, because explaining this album is a bit difficult. Wanderers: Astrology of the Nine is a two-hour long split album by Spectral Lore and Mare Cognitum, with the two bands writing the two-part epic closer “Pluto (The Gatekeeper)” together. This celestial black metal offering is the most epic thing to happen to the Solar System since Gustav Holst and it single-handedly destroys every argument Neil deGrasse Tyson has ever made against Pluto’s planetary status. —GH

Sylosis, 'Cycle of Suffering'
Welcome back, Sylosis. After a three-year hiatus at the apex of their popularity, Sylosis returned in late 2019, announcing Cycle of Suffering and unleashing the cut “I Sever.” The metal underground gave Sylosis a standing ovation, which only grew louder once Cycle of Suffering dropped in full. Beautifully balancing dynamics from thrash, prog and death metal, Sylosis haven’t missed a step with their new work. —GH

Testament, 'Titans of Creation'
These days, Testament are in no rush to churn out album after album — and that’s just fine. Four years between records seems to be the sweet spot for the thrash icons, and it’s clear their process is fine-tuned as they take all the necessary time to work on crafting excellent, energized songs rather than retreading past successes. Titans of Creation is a testament (ugh, sorry) to the band’s unrelenting innovation and open-mindedness. —JD

Trivium, 'What the Dead Men Say'
The Trivium boys have done it again. For many, The Sin and The Sentence was viewed as a quintessential Trivium album — an all-encompassing sonic onslaught. On What the Dead Men Say, the band didn't tinker too much with that winning formula, instead refining that dynamic songwriting palette like folding steel to forge the most enduring samurai blade. —JD

Vader, 'Solitude in Madness'
Vader are a beacon of consistency in death metal. Solitude in Madness, the 12th album from the Polish institution, utilizes its time with menacing efficiency — 11 songs blast by in less than 30 minutes. Speed and aggression has always been Vader's calling card and rarely does it get faster than this record. —JD

https://loudwire.com/2020-best-metal-albums-so-far/Embed